(whooshing)
All right, let's get
jumping into testing our React application.
There's all kinds of stuff that's surrounding
testing an application when you have it.
What we're gonna be focusing on now is actually
testing all of the different components
that make up our React application.
So, we're gonna be looking at doing unit testing
against some of the functions,
that's gonna sorta get us up to speed.
If you're brand new at testing
that is going to just kinda give you
the 101 of how unit testing works
and kinda the ideas around it.
Feel free to skip that if you are
sort of seasoned as a unit tester already.
Then we're gonna jump into
some of the more specific stuff
that is to React,
so shall rendering components or mounting components,
those are sort of two ways you can test a component.
We'll look at the differences between the two,
when you might want to use one over the other.
We're gonna be looking at something
called snapshot testing,
which is specific to Jest.
I'm a big fan of that,
and then finally we're gonna be looking
at mocking our Apollo store.
So when it comes to running our queries
and our mutations inside of our components,
how are we going to deal with the data
that lives in the Apollo store?
So this assumes that you are brand new to testing.
Again, you might want to skip over the first couple bits
if you are a seasoned tester already.
Let's take a look at some of the tools
that we're going to be using.
First one is called Jest,
and the other tool that we're using is called Enzyme.
So let's talk about what Jest is first.
Jest is a testing framework they say,
and I think the reason why they call it a framework
is 'cause it does more than one thing,
especially if you've dealt with Mocha or Chai
or Tape or any of these things in the past.
So the first thing that Jest does it it's a test runner,
meaning that it is going to crawl our folder structure
and look for tests that we have written,
and then it's going to run those tests
and show us the output of if they've passed
or if they fail and what not.
So when you're in your front end folder,
you don't have to do this now,
but we are gonna run npm run test
and what that's gonna do behind the scenes
is gonna run Jest and it's gonna watch all of our files
for any changes in the code in the tests that we've written.
If I go ahead and run them all right now,
I just pressed a and it's telling us
that it's looking for a whole bunch of tests
that have some of these different naming structures.
We'll look at that in just a second.
It didn't find anything,
but it's going to continually watch those for us.
So that's the first thing that is does,
it's this tool that you run from your command line
that watches for tests and will run them any time
that your code changes.
The second thing that it does
is have an insertion library,
which is the expect part of it.
So if we go to the docs of Jest here
and I scroll down to where it says expect,
this is where the actual, the tests,
like once we're running the test we need
to tell it that I expect this variable to equal this.
So at the very basic you can expect a variable,
let's say you have a variable called age, to equal 10,
and if that variable equals 10 then it's gonna pass
and if that variable doesn't equal 10 it's gonna fail.
However, there's all kinds of other values that are in here,
so you can expect a function to have returned things.
You can expect something to be falsy,
to be truthy, to be greater than,
to be greater than to equal,
to match objects that could be an array
that contains a value.
You get the point.
There's all of these different values,
this is how we're going to be,
we're going to be using these mostly
to defined what all of our tests are.
The final third thing that Jest does is mocking,
and that is, we're gonna look
at what mocking is in jut a second.
But essentially, if you have a data fetching
or a function that runs that goes off
and fetches data and you just wanna fake
the actual running of that function,
as well as the data that it returns,
you can replace those functions with what are called mocks,
and we'll go into sort of two different types of mocks,
we're gonna use Jest to mock,
but we're also going to be using some tools
in React Apollo that allow us to mock the store.
So that is Jest.
And Jest can be used be used for any JavaScript,
'cause none of this is specific
to testing React applications,
so when it comes to testing React components
you need something else to actually interface with that,
and that's where Enzyme starts to come in.
There are a couple other libraries out there,
namely there's one called React Test Renderer,
and that's pretty good,
but it's not as advanced or as easy to use as Enzyme,
so what a lot of people are using
in the React world is Enzyme.
I personally use this myself.
It's from airbnb and what it will do is it will
actually allow you to render out your React component,
either via shallow render or by mounting it.
And then it allows us to actually
interface with that component.
You can do things like click buttons,
trigger events, all of those things,
and then once those events have happened
you can use sort of like a jQuery API
to dive into your component
and check that the pieces of your component
are what you expect them to be.
So for example, if you add a pair of shoes
to your cart twice
you're gonna double check that the pair of shoes
is in the cart,
you're gonna check that the quantity is set to two,
you're gonna check that if the shoes were $10 each
then the total would've been $20.
You're gonna check that there's a button that is clickable
that would allow you to remove it,
and using sort of like a jQuery traversal API
that makes it really, really, really easy
to do it in Enzyme.
So, again we'll get more into
what these different tools do,
but that's sort of a high level of the different pieces
of the testing that we're gonna be using.
So that's it, let's just take a quick look
at some of the setup that we have.
Sort of one of the claims to fame that Jest has
is that there's not a lot of setup
in order to get it running,
but there is a little bit of setup.
So let's open up our package .json
and scroll down to where you find the Jest config.
I always like to put my babel configs and Jest configs
in my package .json if I can,
and there's a couple little things here.
First, it tells us where our specific framework setup is,
where that file is,
so we can actually open that up right now, jest.setup.js.
There's just a little bit of stuff
for configuring Enzyme in there,
we'll come back to that in a second.
Second, ignore, what should you ignore?
Obviously we don't want to run any tests
in our node modules directory,
and then I'm also ignoring the next folder
that is generated by our Next.js,
and then finally we are telling it
to also watch GraphQL and gql files.
This is pretty standard setup.
We don't use any of these external gql files,
but should you do that,
it's already setup for you there.
Then if we open up our jest.setup.js,
this is just how we can configure Enzyme.
There is a different package
for every version of React that you have.
So if you take a look right here,
you're going to see that every version of React
has its own adapter.
So this may change.
That's the reason why I've provided it with you,
so as React updates itself
I'll be sure to update this as well,
and then you just configure it to work
with your specific version of React.
So those are the only two pieces of setup that we have.
In the next video what we're gonna be doing
is figuring out where we write our tests
and looking at some of the basics of unit testing.
So I'll see you in that video.